From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 15. Recorded live
Thursday, May 27th, 2010. Support for Hanselman.
This is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks, world travel tips with
James sr. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And I am sitting today
in a fancy hotel room
in Sydney, Australia with James
sr. How are you, sir?
I'm doing fantastic. Thank you,
Scott. And we are in
the process of a worldwide
tour. You have gone through
London and Moscow and Toronto
in Beijing and Shanghai. And
I joined you in Beijing.
We've nearly forgotten that we've
forgotten the cities and we're
moving forward and you've got
Singapore left and a miles
to go before you sleep.
Yeah, a lot of places.
So it was a stop
in New York then onto Moscow
then to Beijing, which I
learned is not actually pronounced,
be judging, but Beijing and
whilst there, which was useful,
then Shanghai, and now we
are in Sydney indeed. And
so we are traveling and
we tend to travel a
lot and we thought we'd
do a show about travel
tips because we're both, I
think, seasoned she's in travelers.
We like to think such
yes. So if you are
a traveler, this is, this
is the show for you.
Let's talk about getting to
and from the airport and
kind of the prep stuff
that you have to do.
What are some tips that,
that you use for getting
ready to go to the
airport? Carry on that. Just
simple tip, just carry on.
Don't try and overpack. I
know that when I travel,
I always travel light. If
we just contrast that with
someone like my girlfriend, for
example, you know, and bless
her, she likes to take
a lot of clothes and
things overpack. I think people
don't realize you can get
away with a lot less
things when you're traveling. And
so just try and take
the bare essentials and carry
on your luggage. Exactly. I
think the thing to remember
is that wherever you're going
is probably not Mars. People
have legs and arms just
like we do, and therefore
one can purchase shirts and
pants. And if you forget
something or you really need
something, it can be purchased
usually very inexpensively don't panic.
Don't if you forget a
travel adapter, for example, for
power or I don't know,
I picked up 110 to
240 volt converter at the
hotel here. You can normally
get things from reception. They're
pretty accommodating, right? You're not
the first person to forget
something. So focus on the
essentials. Like for me as
a diabetic, I focus more
on power bars and snacks
and insulin and make sure
you've got your USB adapters
and your kind of more
exotic power adapters. Yep. I
mean, I think you and
I focus mainly on the
gadgets as well. Yeah. As
long as everything charges, pants
are really secondary. I've gone
with no clothes whatsoever, but
just as long as I've
got my laptop right. Renewed,
but a great high definition
camera. Exactly. And it also,
if you're going to be
gone for an extended period
of time, as you have
been used the hotel laundry,
you've got a single carry
on bag and a backpack,
and you've been doing laundry
at the hotel Who would
consider considered insane, but I'm
traveling now. I will be
traveling for 27 days total.
Wow. So nearly a month
and I'm doing it all
with a single carry on
and a backpack. So when
my backpack, I have two
laptops, I have a range
of gadgets from high definition
cameras to portable hard disc
drives. I have various sort
of paradoxes, et cetera, cameras.
And in my main luggage,
which I'm also carrying on,
it's a small kind of
wheelie luggage as well. And
we'll talk about that maybe
a little bit later on
it's basic clothes, wash bag,
all miniaturized And all segments
that I've noticed that when
we get through to security,
the way that you've packed,
as you've put all of
your toiletries in one bag,
that's sitting on the top
of your bank. So you
literally open it up, pull
it out. Boom. And right,
there are all of your
toiletries. Yep. Thinking ahead, what
are you going to need
to get out of your
bags in order to get
through the security airport process?
Right. And you would be
surprised how little you really
need to be taking when
you go somewhere. Absolutely. So
don't panic. And then of
course, checking in online. I
think we all use the
tickets now. You know, we
definitely want to issue the
paper ticket whenever possible. But
checking in at the airport
from a speed perspective is
dead. It, it can be,
it varies between airlines. If
you know the airline you're
traveling with and you know,
the airport, then you can
normally get away with perhaps
the computer kiosks that will
give you the ticket. And
they're, they're quite convenient, but
for airlines that you're not
very familiar with. It's best
to go ahead and see
if you can check online
because sometimes you get caught
up in some nasty lines
because they haven't got the
kiosks. Are they a certain
airport you're traveling from? So
make sure you check in
online, either print out your
boarding pass or get, like
you said, Scott, the new
kind of mobile device version
of that, where they just
scan it off the phone
And with international flights, sometimes
now you can put your
passport information in online. Exactly.
And make sure you've got
all of your visa. Yeah.
Well that's a story. Yeah.
So I was advised that
I didn't need a visa
to get into Australia. And
so I land, I went
up to the checking desk
in Shanghai as we were
leaving. And there was advised
by the nice smiley lady
who was serving me that
I needed a visa and
I didn't have one of
course, Scott was a very
pleased with himself because he
had a visa for Australia,
but I didn't. So it
wasn't too much of a
traumatic process. I just needed
to go around the corner
and buy one. It could
have been though, but it
have been. So make sure
you plan ahead, make sure
that you know, all of
the constraints on the place
you're traveling to And when
you're doing visas like that,
remember that there's a difference
between a visa that allows
you to enter a country
and a visa. It allows
you to transit through one.
And this is really interesting
when you're doing EU countries
and you're not an American
citizen because I was traveling
with my wife and my
sister in law. My sister
in law has a green
card and she was trans.
We were transiting. So we
were going from Johannesburg to,
I think we went to
Frankfurt, Frankfurt to Paris and
then Paris back to Portland.
Well, we entered Europe at
Frankfurt. She did not have
an EU visa. She did
not have a Schengen visa
or a bit, but somehow
we got in and I'm
not saying, and to be
clear, we didn't know. We
just walked through a door.
And the next thing we
know we were here, but
we didn't really go into
Europe. We were just going
to go from Frankfurt to
Paris. Then we were in
Paris getting ready to leave.
And the person at the
passport counter says, how are
you here? You're not even
supposed to be here. Yeah,
no, of course we were
leaving. And they realized that
it was a mistake, but
it turns out it was
the, we never should have
been allowed to have left
Frankfurt. That could have been
a very, very sticky situation.
So be aware of your
visas, be aware. There are
some very subtle things. A
us citizen didn't need a
transit visa, but a us
green card holder did. And
then of course, when you
do show up and you're
ready to stamp your passport,
make sure you have enough
pages. And some countries have
specific South Africa requires at least
two pages of blank area.
Otherwise they'll kick you out.
And what happens then in
that scenario, Lance Armstrong had
this problem about a month
and a half ago, Lance
Armstrong, the famous American cyclist
showed up in South Africa with
a full passport or he
had a single page free.
And then the embassy got
involved and all this kind
of VIP stuff happened and
it became a big problem.
I had the same exact
situation happened. What would the
VIP status? And the episode
of VIP status Have a
bit of a back and
forth with the, the visa
folks and immediately, but very
easily could have been sent,
sent back through lack of
planning on my part. Right?
You typically typically nine times
out of 10, it's your
fault for not doing your
research, right? So this is
all stuff before you go
before you, you know, on
the day of departure, but
what about actually getting to
the airport? Any tips there,
Scott? Well, I definitely try
to avoid taking the car
if I can, if you
can take the bus or
take the train, you're going
to save big, big money,
especially a short term or
medium term parking. You're looking
at 20, 30 us dollars
a day. Yep. Take the
light rail or the train
directly there. But also when
you get there, it is
so expensive. If you just
decide to hop in a
black car, hop in a
taxi and get to the,
get to the hotel. Yeah.
I mean, going to the
airport, I travel a lot
from Seattle and obviously being
based there and you know,
I started out getting the
cat because when I first
moved there, I didn't really
know the public transport system
at all. So I was
getting taxis to the airport
and that was roundabout 40
to $50 a time. And
that really adds up if
you're traveling, traveling frequently. So
shortly after I realized I
was spending a lot of
money on cabs, I was
saying, okay, how do I
cut this back? And the
bus going to the airport
is not only very, very
efficient in terms of time,
takes 30 minutes from Seattle
downtown to Sea-Tac airport. But
it's also very cost effective.
I think it's around two
and a half to $2
50 for it, for a
ticket. And now we have
the new light, new and
improved light rail, which is
even more clean and pristine,
et cetera. But like you
said, getting from the airport
to your destination, again, look
into local transport. If you
can get some advice, perhaps
visit the information desk, find
out what the best deals
are, the best way of
getting to your final destination.
I think that people who
aren't doing that, they're paying
for the convenience, but they
need to realize how much
they're paying for the convenience.
I mean, two bucks versus
50 bucks is a big,
you're paying $48 for convenience.
A perfect example is coming
back from a PDC. This
last October, everyone was taking
taxis to the airport from
the, from the Sheridan. And
you're looking at 45 $55.
Yep. But our business manager
Shaunti and I ended up
just taking the train from
downtown LA. It was $2
to get to the airport
and it only required one
train change. And the only
reason to not do that
would be the fear of
the unknown. Yeah, exactly. But
your hotel concierge knows this
stuff, ask them, take advantage
of your concierge. When you're
moving from place to place.
We showed up in Sydney
today, you had a car
scheduled and we can't So
that we canceled it before
we left Shanghai, just because
we felt we were more
comfortable in the English speaking
country. We felt like we
should be able to get
around. And sure enough, we
got a train ticket for
15 Australian dollars. And within
20 to 30 minutes, we
were in downtown Sydney, two
blocks from our hotel. Exactly.
And it would have been
$95. Yeah. Had we kept
the taxi. So we saved
60 bucks between the two
of us. And that was
pretty, pretty nice. Your boss
will be happy. My boss
will be thrilled. One of
thing to remember is that
when you're parking or when
you're going to the airport,
if there's, and this is
just a personal chip, I
actually learned this from Scott,
Kate. He said, take pictures
of everything that you need
to remember. If you're going
to be gone for 27
days park, take a picture
of where you parked your
car, take a picture of
receipts, take a picture of
baggage, claim, receipts, anything at
all that you could lose
remembering that, that your phone
is probably the one thing
you are the least likely
to lose. Take a picture.
And myself, when I do
take a picture, I take
it with Evernote, which actually
synchronizes the data into the
cloud. So even if I
do in fact, lose my
phone, I'll still have pictures
of my documents that Scott
takes pictures of wifi passcodes,
A hotel room numbers. And
I, it's funny, I've taken
pictures. Have I not? You
actually need that to find
your way around. Take a
picture of the front of
my hotel room. So I
don't forget the hotel room
number. That's a good one.
It it's simple pick something
that works for you. So
once you get to the
airport, what are some things
that we can do to
what are some kind of
tips to make sure that
you're effective at the airport?
Well, there's some available that
I would thoroughly recommend. I
live and die by these
tools. Things like TripIt, for
example, trip, it helps me
to manage all of my
itineraries for months, Our IP,
I T trip it don't
call it. Yeah. And so
they have a work grade
website where you can go
and manage all of your
itineraries. And they also have
a really cool Email Seat,
feature functionality, where you send
off to them, your itineraries
and your receipts for your
travel bookings. And they will
interpret them. They will scan
them and figuring out what
exactly you're doing and then
add it to their system
laminate and create a new
itinerary for you. So you
didn't, you don't even have
to do data entry. You
can be really lazy. You
can get your receipts from
kayak or from American express
travel or whatever it is,
and then forward it on
to TripIt and then bang,
you've got a new itinerary
created in TripIt and the
reason why TripIt it is
useful and why the reason,
the reason why you have
that itinerary is useful is
because it helps you to
navigate around and make sure
you're not missing flights, et
cetera. Exactly. There's really no
excuse to miss a flight.
And the great thing about
TripIt is that if you,
maybe you listener have an
itinerary in your inbox right
now, pause this podcast forward
that itinerary just literally go
into your email and forward
it to plans@tripit.com. You don't
have to sign up for
anything they'll automatically make an
account for you based on
your email address, they'll parse
it. And if you have
a, this is great for
if you've got a significant
other or a partner that
you need to keep up
to date on all of
your travel plans. You just
forward all this stuff. It
can be a hotel reservation
from American express. It can
be a flight reservation from
Expedia, they'll parse it all.
They parse hundreds of different
kinds of docs, even attachments
they'll even do PDs. They
will look inside your emails
and look at PDF status,
And it will make a
nice clean one pager that
you can hand to your
spouse and say, here's what
I'm going to be. Yup.
It is unreal. It's almost
like having a virtual And
the other cool things it
does is track you all
with your trips. So if
you're a frequent traveler, you
can kind of get statistics
on how far you've traveled,
where you've been. You can
find out who's going to
be nearby, so you can
have a contact list to
say, Hey, Scott Hanselman is
going to be in Sydney
at the same time as
you, and you might want
to get in touch, go
for a drink or whatever.
And the other, the other
funny thing is it has
league tables of who in
your group of friends has
traveled the most. So if
you're kind of competitive and
you want to have the
most miles, or you want
to have been to the
most cities or shoveled to
the most countries, and you
can track that too. And
having that extra information allows
you to take action when
it, when it's appropriate. Right?
And that's a really good
tip when you're at the
airport, PA pacivity being passive
will kill you. And that
means that if you're on
a flight and you're waiting
for the flight to board,
and then maybe it's delayed
and it's delayed again, and
people are starting to mill
around, this is where you
as the savvy traveler take
action. And there's been a
lot of times when, when
I've found that the information
I've been given, and this
is information that goes to
the masses, who at the
airport by agents is perhaps
in accurate in sometimes some
cases. And I found that
whilst checking on my device
with services like TripIt and
other services that I can
find more accurate information, more
up to date information. So
I can step one. I
can say one step ahead
of the mob. People are
looking on their documents to
find out what the next
flight is, where the next
terminal is. But with SMS
alerts and smartphone applications, you
already know the layout of
the airport, which would determine
when you get out and
what the most effective way
to get to the next
gate is, which is tough
when you have really tight
connection. Yeah. And there's an
example where I was flying
from New York to Moscow and
I had arrived into JFK.
My flight was a little
bit delayed getting to the
gate. And my transfer time
was around about 20 to
30 minutes, which is not
a lot of time. And
the airline assistant on board
didn't know which terminal I
was going to for my
flight to Moscow. When I
got out of the aircraft
onto the gate, the agent
didn't know which terminal I
needed to go to. So
this is a problem. They
said, I'll go to the
customer service desk right down.
The other end of the
terminal. Jeff Case is a busy,
big airport. I don't want
to do that. I click
quickly get on to trip
it. I find I click
on the get flight status
button for my next flight.
And it tells me automatically
what terminal I am at
what symbol I need to
be at. And so then
I hopped on the bus,
got there and I was
like five minutes before the
doors close, which is I
would have missed that flight.
Had I not had that
time? Exactly. There's been many
times where I've been on
flights that looked like they
were going to get canceled,
but we kept being kind
of shined on by the
gate agent saying, well, we
know it could take off.
It could take off. This
is where you take action.
You pick up the phone,
you call, if you're, if
you're an MVP or if
you're a, a premier with
a particular airline, like I'm
premier with Alaska airlines, call
them up and say, it's
looking like this is going
to be canceled and I
need to get moved on
to something, something else. And
this is where you want
to speak the language Of
the sky. What is, what
do you mean by that?
You can, again, the whole
goal here is to save
time, right? If you're going
to save time, you need
to speak the language of
the agents. And by, by
the, by that, I mean,
being able to pick up
the phone and say, you
know, I'm on delayed United
six 86 from an LGA
to Chicago. Can you get
me on standby United six
80? Wow. That sounds like
you've, you know, it's talking
about, I'm not saying you
need to be at a
flight agent, but I'm saying
that you can say, hi,
you know, how's it going?
I'm on this flight. What's
your name, sir? What's your
flight. If you can talk
to them in the same
way that they're talking to
each other, it makes their
lives easier. And those small
shortcuts can move you forward
in your, in your travel
experience. I think a lot,
a lot better. The other
thing is that when you're
trying to jump around from
flight to flight, you never
want to give up a
guaranteed seat for the chances,
Right? So if you're trying
to get on a flight,
which is earlier on, perhaps
in the day, you don't
want say, well, I'm going
to give Up my seat
and move to this other
fight. Maybe at the chance
of a seat, you can
put yourself on standby and
make sure that you always
kind of keep your finger
on the chest piece before
you make your move. Cause
you never really want to
give up an actual guaranteed
seat at all points Be
pleasant. Yep. Don't be that
guy. Don't be that guy
because that guy never gets
upgraded. You will, your life
will be a living hell
they can make. They have
the power to do that.
Hey, it's alternate universe, Scott
Hanselman going to thank our
sponsors for making this free
show possible. We've been doing
Hansel minutes for almost four
years now and we really
couldn't do it without tolerant.
So I want to tell
you about some of the
stuff they're working on. If
you've already started developing with
Silverlight, then you'll probably need
a solid testing tool to
do your several at UIs.
Unfortunately, though, a lot of
the tools available today only
help you with unit testing.
There's not really a good
way to simulate the actual
behavior of those end users,
unless you spend days and
weeks doing a lot of
manual testing. But the guys
at Telerx, you've got a
new point, click UI testing
tool for server line called
web UI test studio. And
the beauty is that you
can quickly record your tests
with a cross browser recorder,
and you can enrich them
with code. If you've got
really complex scenarios. And on
top of that, it supports
all the standard controls as
well as the Tellerik enhanced
controls. You can verify not
only server life, but even
complex Ajax applications, best part
web UI test studio lives
in visual studio. So you
don't have to leave your
favorite development environment. You check
it out at telerik.com/web hyphen
testing, hyphen tools, and be
sure to thank Tellerik for
supporting the show on their
Facebook fan page at facebook.com/tellerik.
Now, when you're going through
security, what are some things
that you do James to
get through? So if I
haven't already done this before
getting to the airport, perhaps
I've done this on the
light rail or on the
bus whilst I'm waiting in
line, I'll be taking off
all metallic items. I'll be
taking my watch off. I'll
be putting it in my
bag, my carry on bag.
My rucksack has a nice
pouch at the top for
these kind of items. I
take my belt off that
goes in there. Any coins
I might have just getting
ready, just getting ahead of
the curve. And then by
the time I'm at the
place where you put all
of the items into your
tray and everybody's, they're frantically
stressing and sweating because they're
trying to get all of
their items out. You know,
you're just gliding through karmas
can be one fluid motion.
It's just, it's just so
simple. And if you've got
no items that you have
liquid, for example, or like
I have my carry on
my roll on and it's
all I have. I just
flip it open and I
have my wash bag then
on the top, which I
get out and I put
that in the tray. Another
thing that I've found is
that you don't need to
have these plastic bags. I
mean, officially you do. But
in my experience, when I've
been going through many, many
airports all around the world,
my wash bag is perfectly
fine to have all of
those items in, you know,
there's a hundred milliliters max
kind of thing. And you
just put them through as
long as they're separate, as
long as they're separate, they
seem to be fine with
it. Exactly. Getting all that
stuff through security. And then
also being prepared to explain
yourself if there's some particular
thing that's going to be
difficult. If you have a
pacemaker or whatever, You got
a great example in China,
right? So I can say
I'm diabetic and I have
an insulin pump that's attached
to me and I've got
a continuous glucose meter. That's
literally implanted in my gut
with a big old piece
of tape. And it's kind
of a funny looking thing.
And this is something that's
unusual to see in the
States. And it's extremely unusual
elsewhere. And I was in,
I was actually in Tanzania
and I spent about an
hour having tried to explain
this to the guys at
the Kilimanjaro airport. And I
said, I'm never going to
do this again. So instead
I always try to learn
how to say, you know,
I'm a diabetic or I
need some help or whatever.
In the, in the local
language, they always say to
get phrase books and learn
about things like how to
order food at the restaurant,
don't waste your time on
that. You can always point
in the menu, but when
you're going through, you know,
China airport and they've got
Beijing airport, like we were
earlier this week and I
can say, well, y'all Tonya
being and say, I'm a
diabetic. Or if you're in
Germany and you need to
say, , They have to
do more working out. But
Point is though no blood
sugar is low. I actually
did that. I, that was
just one example of a
phrase. I was in Munich
and my blood sugar was
low. And I went into
an Apple tech into a
pharmacy and just announced my
blood sugar is low and
boom, all the German pharmacy,
people jumped to my aid.
You know what I mean?
So I've learned to say,
I'm a diabetic, this is
an insulin pump. You know,
it's one of , you
know, in like 15 different
languages because you need to
do that. I remember watching
you coming through the Beijing
security gate and the horror
on the face of the
girl who is kind of
waving a magic wand over
in you and go BBB
over your side. And then
all of a sudden you're
gonna have showed off this
device in your hand. And
then it was wide up
to you. And she was,
you know, the worst things
are running through your mind.
And then as soon as
you mentioned this magical phrase
in Chinese, she was like,
Oh, no problem, mr. Handsome.
And it comes through you.
Why didn't you say so
before Exactly say probably saved
me 10 minutes. Well, 10
hours probably Anabel. Well, certainly
it saved me a slight.
Certainly it saved me secondary
screening. I think that's the
point is be prepared of
what's what, what might happen.
And in my case, it's,
you know, if I'm traveling
through Europe or traveling through
Asia, learn how to say
the things, I'm an asthmatic.
I have a pacemaker I'm
a diabetic or whatever in
the five or six languages.
And one of the things
that you and I did
as we were wandering around
China was we got the
lonely planet, a phrasebook and
we completely ignorant. So the
Chinese language Chinese is really
horrific, frankly. But when we're
getting around, you know, we,
we brought a little lonely
planet application. So we can
ask things like, where is
the toilet essential, essential? You
know, I'd like a taxi.
Well, that's one of the
things, A bit of a
tip if you're in Beijing
and you're trying to get
a taxi at night, it
seems to have been a
bit of a, we were
standing by the edge of
the road and we're just
trying to hail a cab
or half an hour for
about half an hour. Some
guy was telling us the
most strategic place to stand
on the side of the
road. He was kind of
helping us out, but it's
still, you know, taxi. So
actually it turns out the
Metro in Beijing isn't too
bad. So It's funny. So
we actually didn't take our
own advice initially and then
said, wait a second, we're
sitting here trying to get
a taxi. Let's take the
Metro. And we were home
in about 15 minutes just
by, just by taking the
local subway. Now that's a
long flight. We were flying.
We flew into Beijing and
that was about a 10
hour flight. We just got
off a flight, literally a
couple of hours ago coming
from Shanghai to Sydney. And
that was about a 10
hour flight. Yep. And then
I've got a 14 hour
flight coming up to San
Francisco soon. What do you
do to break that flight
up on a long haul?
What do you do for
16 hours? I know that
you've got multiple devices that
serve different types of content
and media. Well, I mentally
chop the flight up into
two hour segments. Cause I
think there's a certain psychological
barrier there. I mean, that's
a long time. Like, what
am I going to do?
Yeah. Just read magazines, Try
and aim to sleep on
a flight. I mean, that's
my main goal is to
try and get as much
rest as possible, but failing
that you need to have
things to keep your self
busy and you know, sometimes
the airline content they have
on the video screens, isn't
exactly what you want. So
perhaps having movies available that
you've brought along when your
laptop, perhaps a little bit
of work, if you need
to get that done as
well. I find that being
on a plane is great
efficient work time personally, because
it's, there's no distractions from
being connected to the incident
internet. There's no emails coming
in and some of my
best work, some of my,
kind of the most solid
pieces of work like that.
I've had three hours to
work on from start to
finish. I find that I've
done it in Arabic, Nothing
like locking yourself into a
giant steel tube, 30,000 feet
up in the air to
really get some work done.
So you put it like
that. Yes. Yeah. It's brilliant.
But I always assume the
worst. I always assume I
won't be able to sleep
and I'm going to need
to entertain myself for 10
solid hours. So I bring,
I bring DVDs. I bring
videos. I think I brought
nine movies on this, on
this side. That's an aggressive
schedule of movies. Well, and
here's the thing. I've only
watched three of them, but
I know that they're there.
And again, this is a
psychological trick, a lot about
traveling and be effective at
traveling, especially not going insane.
And the giant steel tube
and this guy is knowing
what works for you. And
for me, just the fact
that I've got my Kindle
with a hundred books on
it or whatever, you know,
I think I've actually got
like 10 or 15 books.
I've got the magazines, comic
books. I've got the videos.
Let's me know that. At
least I won't be bored.
I may have other things
going on on the flight,
but I won't be bored.
So definitely break your flight
up mentally And also keep
hydrated during the flight. That's
I can't stress that enough
for me. It's very important
that you take on lots
of water. And then if
you're on a long flight,
also take the time to
stretch, walk around the cabin,
you know, wiggle your toes,
get the circulation going. Someone
told me that the humidity
out In the world is,
you know, the average place
in the world is like
60%, 70%, but on a
plane it's like 30% and
you just, just seep water
out of your system. So
you should go through, you
know, a leader or two
over the course of a
big, long flight length. And
before I get on the
plane, I often try and
buy a big bottle of
water to take on with
me. Obviously you can't take
it through security, but as
soon as you hit the
newsstands, pick up a paper,
get a bottle of water.
Chewing gum also is nice.
So when you get off
the flight, you've got fresh
breath and you don't feel
like you've got in your
mouth as long a dog.
So that's nice. How much
do you think that those
Bose noise canceling headphones are
worth it? Do they really
make you feel more refreshed
when you, You got off
a flight? So I support
myself about two months ago
and I bought myself these
new nice Bose headphones. And
prior to that, I had
the in ear ones that
you use. And I use
the Etymotic sure headphones on
there, but I found for
long flights, if they, if
they were in for maybe
five, six, seven hours, then
they started to hurt a
little bit. I think they
expanded and contracted in my,
or whatever, according to the
pressure. And so then the
Bose ones fit over my
ears and much more comfortable
for longer. It's worth it
though. I mean, do you
feel that the, the not
hearing the deep humming of
the engine more Relaxed? I
would say so. Yeah, definitely.
And what do you use
to get there? Best seats
on the plane? I think
that, you know, getting exit
row seats or failing, getting
exit row seats, getting a
really good seat that reclines
not getting 36 G Yeah,
yeah. Infamousy that nobody wants,
right, right in the butt
of the plane. Well, there's
this site called seat guru.com,
which I use religiously to
help me find the best
seats on the plane. And
that tells you using a
heat map visually where in
the different classes of the
cabin, you're going to find
the best seats. And there's
some hidden gems on there.
There really are seats, which
you wouldn't expect to be
very good because they're located
in certain areas of the
plane. For example, the back
sometimes has some really good
seats and various other places.
And it will show you
according to not only the
aircraft, but also the airline,
because also remember airlines have
different configurations for different aircraft.
So it depends on those
two factors. So check it
out and you'll get really
good advice on where to
try and get a seat.
You would think that a
flight would be the same
just based on the name,
the, the kind of airplane,
but for example, on long
haul flights, sometimes they'll take
a number of rows in
the back on the right
side of the plane and
they'll cordon them off so
that the flight attendants can
have a private space exactly.
Then that prevents the seats
in front of them from
reclining. So if you, if
you're not careful, you can
certainly end up with a,
a very bad or worse
than normal flight yeah. Seat.
Exactly. And there's no excuse
really for not using this
tool in, in concert with
your checking online, because online
checking now features the ability
to pick a seat. And
so you should have this
window open where you're picking
your seat and also seat
guru open to find out
if you're actually getting the
best one Best way to
get a good seat, of
course, is to have some
status on the airline to
have flown enough, to build
up some miles and either
upgrade them or have enough
miles that they'll see you
coming and upgrade you. Yep.
You're pretty obsessive about this.
I know both with hotel
points, we're both Starwood people.
Starwood is a hotel point
system. And then also with
airlines. Yeah. Well, let's talk
about airlines first. I think
that one of the golden
rules is where you live,
where you can have your
home hub is match that
up with the airlines home
hub. So for example, I
live in Seattle, that is
the home hub for Alaska
airlines. So therefore it makes
sense that most flights that
I take or majority of
flights, I'll be able to
get out of Seattle with
Alaska going to various destinations.
And this varies, you know,
Atlanta will be Delta. I'm
not sure what Portland is
or if it has a
hub burns Alaska. Right? So
that would, that's kind of
a golden rule. The other
thing to think about when
you're choosing which airline to
bank with, because it really
is a choice, you know,
you need to go whole
hog with one airline to
make maximum efficiency. The other
consideration is to having the
kind of the ones with
the biggest airline partners. So
I know that star Alliance,
for example, is an example
with an umbrella program where
it has lots of airlines
involved. So that's another thing
to think about. So try
and book with that airline
also make sure if they
have a credit card that
you can use to accrue
points, use that, make sure
you're taking all of the
advantages from that. And then
when it comes to hotels,
I think the industry recognizes
as, and that Starwood that
you mentioned has been like
the best hotel chain for
the last five, six, seven
years, Whatever it is, Starwood
includes Western and Sheridan and
a loft. And yeah, The
great thing about Sheraton, sorry.
The great thing about Starwood
is they have kind of
high end hotels and Regis
is kind of their flagship
brand, but they go all
the way down to kind
of a loft and four
points, which have much, much
more affordable. So they've got
a great scale and these
points all accrue to the
same program. And then you
can use the points to
book, nice trips. You can
use the points to book
flights. You can use them
points to get money off
of hotel, stays, pay for
entire stays, et cetera, Business
traveler. This really makes your
life easier. And I'm only,
I think, regular silver this
year. I didn't go gold.
You're platinum though this year,
I really paid attention to
it last year. You and
I are paying to be
clear the same price we
will. I've been traveling all
over the world with James
and we both walk into
hotels. We both pay the
same price, but what, what
are you getting that I'm
not okay. Well with platinum,
you get automatic upgrades. If
they're available, you get, I
think the latest perk is
that you get free wireless,
free internet access in the
hotels, 2,400 Australian dollars a
day for wifi. Yep. Which
I'm unfortunate, the company you
have to pay for, but
you're getting free wifi. And
we're sitting in a, in
a multi-room suite, you're paying
the same price I'm paying
for. And you've got a
fax and you've got a
view. You've got multiple paths
And oftentimes the hotel will
have a club and you
get access to the club
level where they have free
refreshments, free dinner. That's I
think that's where we're going
to go for food later
on. And of course, good
place to work and a
good place to work. Yeah.
So it's kind of a,
a great way to kind
of make the most of
your stay and getting that
platinum level is, is really
worth it. And I really
focused on making sure that
all of my stays no
matter where I was in
the world, I was hitting
a sh a Starwood property.
That's the trick. You would
think that, wow, you guys
must travel a lot, but
it's less about traveling a
lot more about the discipline.
For example, I was at
mix In Vegas, right? So
next conference in March, and
the difference between my stay
and your stay was that
you were staying in the
Mandalay Bay where the conference
was and you think, well,
that's a smart move because
it's conferences local. But I
was staying in the Western,
which is just down the
road, down the strip, maybe
five minutes away. But instead
of not getting points like
you, I was getting my
points, which recruiting to my
platinum status. Exactly. And now
I'm kicking myself because if
I just had that five
minute walk, I would have
got these points. The point
system is a nice way.
Also as a business traveler
to kind of give yourself
a perk in a very
ethical way. Yep. The company
is paying for the room
because we're here on business.
But then a couple of
times a year, you can
cash that in for weekends,
with the, with the wife.
Right? Exactly. And let's, let's
be, let's be Frank here.
I mean, this is work.
I mean, we go around
the world, but we're away
from friends, family loved ones.
And, you know, whilst you're
traveling around the world, it's
kind of a lonely place.
But the great thing is
that whilst I'm away from
my girlfriend, I can also
treat her thanks to the
perks that I've picked up
with my stays to maybe
a weekend away, somewhere in
a nice hotel. All right.
So kind of wrapping it
up. There's tips on getting
to and from the airport,
remember carry on only don't
panic. If you forget anything,
use local trains and buses
at the airport yep. At
the airport, make sure that
you're kind of fast and
efficient getting through security. Also
there's a, we didn't mention
there's a priority club. You
can join to get into
airport lounges $99. I think
it is for the card.
I already task priority, pass.com
and that's 600 lounges around
the world. A very, very
good by making sure that
you make sure that you
check in online and get
the seat that you need.
You're using all of the
tools available to you on
your laptop and also on
your mobile device. When you're
actually traveling around the airport,
speak the language of the
sky. As Scott said, make
sure that you're talking as
succinctly as possible. And also,
you know, there's important foreign
phrases That will get you
out of scrapes. Right? Definitely
specific phrases to your situation
when you're on the plane,
if you're in a long
haul, mentally segment that flight.
So you don't go insane
drink, lots of water helps
to know your flight attendants
to if you fly the
same segments, make sure you
know, the names, your flight
attendants, you'd be surprised. The
benefits that that will accrue
and then speaking of benefits.
Yeah. So speaking of benefits
using miles for upgrades, I
w I'm a Starwood member.
I use all of those
things to make sure that
I get my upgrades. When
I go to hotels, I
can get free nights, money
off nights when I stay
for pleasure, making sure that
it's, you're using your airline
miles points system, making sure
that you've got the credit
card that's associated with the
program. So you've, you're building
up points and making sure
that you've taking full advantage
there and then tools that
you might want to use
online when you're traveling. Definitely
tripit.com, both James and I
like kayak. K a Y
a k.com for booking travel.
Also bank travel has a
really nice price trending thing.
If you're looking in the
U S also absolutely recommend
she'd google.com. So those are
our travel tips from the
hotel here in Sydney, Australia.
Thanks so much, James, for
chatting with me. No problem.
Thank you. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.